Unlike the research program and other scholarship opportunities, or talking to my classmates and teachers at school, I needed to advocate for myself and create opportunities that had never been available to anyone, yet. There was no written evaluation or "standard" procedures to follow, and the only way to reach out was searching for contact info on WeChat, attending one of the offline activities, staying after the presentation, and directly going up to the person in charge. My first attempt was aided by my mom: at the Tianjin Mom Circle, she got to know a professor of English at Nankai University, her alma mater, who founded Metacircle Culture and Education in Hong Kong. They also have a learning center in Tianjin that is only 20-minute bike ride from my home. My mom and I went to the center and talked with the founder Tony Huang for an hour. My mom was asking about their programs and opportunities for me, a student. Tony kindly invited me to attend 3-week creative writing workshop and the interviews with famous professors and writers free of charge. Mom and I were thankful and excited about my new adventure into the humanity world. However, I had something different in mind - how can I contribute? I wasn’t an expert in English literature, but I gained experience in helping my peers learn English through the seminars I hosted at my Oral English Club and one-on-one online lessons for ethnic minority students in Weining, China. Still, I felt I couldn’t truly build connections with my peers if I only shared one hour every two weeks with them. Working as a peer mentor at Metacircle meant providing English support and reading sessions for students from 10am to 8pm, 6 days a week during summer and on weekends during school year. The problem was, there was no peer mentor to start with. As I spent more time with Tony and other students at the workshop, I got increasingly aware of the need for a peer mentor. Towards the end of the workshop, I mustered up my courage and proposed my idea of being a peer mentor to Tony. He discussed it with his team, and two days later, I was officially the peer mentor. I spent the first half of my summer helping primary school students to college graduates. When I took a leave for a 2-week summer course in Beijing, my lovely students sent me messages on WeChat every day and even wished I could return earlier. We are not only English learners, but also close friends sharing daily moments and helping each other out. Our encounters started at Metacircle but are not limited to it; we are public forum debate partners, opera and musical fans, United World College advocates, amateur volleyball players, avid learners on Khan Academy and edX, and we have many more shared interests.



My second round of informal "interviews" with the principal and counselors of Tianjin University Harper International Institute went surprisingly smoothly. After attending their info session on a Friday night, the next day I visited the Tianjin campus of Rosedale Academy, the partner online global education provider, and advocated myself as a student researcher and teaching assistant. No doubt there was no such position before I suggested. I "infiltrate"(audit) the Advanced Mathematics and English classes. As my cover, I am enrolled in Introduction to Computer Science for credit registered as a student at Rosedale Academy. In a few days Cesare who teaches math realized I’m actually more like a researcher than a student. We started talking more about pedagogy and our educational missions: he wishes to build a school where children and their parents learn together, promoting family and continuing education especially in disadvantaged communities, while I’m contributing to leading education providers including Khan Academy, Raspberry Pi Projects, Coursera, and of course Rosedale Academy which I believe has the potential to give every student in Chinese public schools a chance to explore and enjoy learning in a close-knit community which is both online and offline in nature. I attend public school where I was selected into the STEM experimental program. Our STEM coursework is accelerated: we cover the 3-year Chinese curriculum in 1.5 years. In 10th grade, I was allowed to take classes with seniors. Appointed by the principal at Harper, I am currently developing the part-time track for students in public high schools and I am the TA for STEM and English courses. I am also collaborating with teachers at the Tianjin University A-level center to introduce A-level courses and "alternatives" to the Gaokao. Thanks to Harvard College Association for U.S.- China Relations(HAUSCR) hosting 2018-2019 China Thinks Big Competition, I now lead a team of three high school seniors to continue research on the new Gaokao and future major/career paths for Chinese students. Two years ago, I was introduced to a liberal arts education and year-long college-level research on Chinese cultural heritages with seniors in my school through HAUSCR. Now it’s my turn to be the senior encouraging Chinese students to dream big and make an impact in their communities. That’s why I decided to shoulder the responsibilities of Chapter President and Liaison for HAUSCR. I organize college-level research seminars and develop partnership with local museums, libraries and universities to empower students with volunteer opportunities. 



When reaching out to Tianjin Children’s Library, I stumbled into a community activity organized by a tech start-up called Qiao Power. The activity featured the combination of coding in Scratch and traditional Chinese music. Exactly what I was trying in my own coding circle! Immediately after the activity, I rode 6 kilometers on a shared bike straight to their office at Nankai University and talked with the boss for two hours, learning about their business plans, curriculum details, and missions towards interdisciplinary computer science education. These two hours landed me an "internship" at Qiao Power and partnership for my HAUSCR chapter. What I’m allowed to try and experiment at the tech start-up looks nothing like a typical internship. I’m directly in charge of curriculum design and evaluation systems for both students and teachers. I try to combine scientific concepts and traditional Chinese cultures with coding in Scratch, Python, Arduino, and C++. By coincidence, I translated the Computer Programming contents on Natural Simulations with math and physics integrated into the course for Khan Academy. Every day at the start-up starts with 2-hour discussions with a team of four college graduates who share the same missions and visions as mine. The CTO actually attempted to build a platform like Khan Academy to help Chinese college students learn Linear Algebra! And we agreed on the difficulty of labeling the problems with specific mastery points and setting default edge weights indicating level of relatedness on the learning map. Lunch breaks resemble Socratic debates on ethics, pedagogy and problem-based learning. The idea of gameful learning, which is different from gamification and incorporates the genuine love for learning,  becomes the new constant after I joined the team. In retrospect, I showed the three gamified systems I designed for Gamification (Coursera), and one project proposal for Go Beyond Gamification with Gameful Learning (edX) to my boss the first time we met, as well as my interview for my city’s newspaper after being ranked 1st among 85,000 students in the high school entrance exam in Tianjin, China. We had a great time talking about this chance to reach thousands of fellow students and share my study tips and beliefs that learning is and should be fun. My boss also easily found the online version of the article that was read and shared more than 20,000 times in the subsequent twelve hours. I continue to organize class sessions and create videos to share learning tips for everyone in China and in the world, and Qiao Power has become my next learning community and sharing platform, after my family, my school, my coding circle, Metacircle, Tianjin University, HAUSCR, and everyone who supports me and motivates me. 

