I am a coder. I am a debater. I am a thinker, a disruptor, a learner. 

I am privileged. 

My mom devotes everything she has to my education. I’ve had access to a laptop and the internet since kindergarten. I flip through local servers and routers to access Khan Academy when its videos are blocked by the government. I discovered Coursera and edX, where I can learn about morality, ancient civilizations, artificial intelligence, linguistics and receive automatically-graded quizzes, peer-reviewed assignments and instant feedback free of charge. My public school has carved out exceptions for me, allowing me to experiment and explore, auditing classes in local universities while my peers cram for the Gaokao exam.

In part because of these experiences, I was the only one in my city to receive full scholarships covering fees for all my standardized tests, study-abroad trips to Australia and Japan, an academic summer program, and a year-long research program at a local university. 

But an idea has been germinating in me for years now—ever since I learned to climb the Great Firewall that "protects" Chinese netizens. Ever since I looked around and realized I did not want to be alone. That I should not be alone. I am a climber; I scale with grappling hook and bare hands, thriving on abandoned sections of the Wall, staying away from the established ladders. 

And yet.

So many around me fall behind, get lost and trampled in the crowd. 9.75 million children each year push towards one single goal of acing the gaokao. One exam to organize all our world. One exam to dictate upward mobility. Its meritocratic quality is aspirational. Its meritocratic quality is flawed...

This is my secret:

The Wall's pull motivates me in my silent rebellion, in my explorations along its secret passages: I envision a revolution that changes how we learn and interact with education. 

I stay up late translating and uploading educational videos. I share all the information from my experiences and classes with my peers. I write programs to create interactive lyrics for English, organize tutorials, class sessions, and interviews. I don't just want to witness educational change in China, I want to help lead it. 

But I have so many questions I cannot answer alone. 

Is it possible to change a system—the largest educational system in the world, founded on thousands of years of history—without causing unintended harms? The system was ostensibly designed to level the playing field; at times, I feel naively arrogant to believe I could create something more egalitarian. Yet I always revert to the what has become an unavoidable conclusion that this system is an anachronism, becoming more harmful in its obsolescence with each passing year. Auto-grading technology and standardized curricula put everyone "on the same page" by freeing up teachers and giving everyone access to the same tools, but what about those students hoping to explore and delve deeper into their academic interests? I am and will always be one of those students. What about the emerging education start-ups wishing to combine what students learn at school with real-life applications and creative expressions? I work at such a start-up. Is this the sacrifice the country needs for equality? Are we the hope for a true equalizer? Or are we the cause of greater divides in resources and opportunities? 

As a coder, I have the power to create new realities. But, to me, this power comes with great responsibility. I aspire for equal access to educational opportunity and I want to bring my classmates, my people along with me to the other side of the Wall.

I would show them flush landscapes, stretching as far and free as you can imagine them. Where we would code. Where we would debate. Where we would think, disrupt, learn.  

Where we would all be privileged.

Where we would experience a freer and more accessible education for all.